Hi will come back in this way you will quickly go into look at vim.
Them is a very popular text editor which you can run from your terminal.
Remember that if you're in Windows you're going to need to use the get shell that we installed at the
beginning of this section.
So you have access to them.
One thing I want to do is clear the content so that we lose kind of what we did in the last video and
then we're going to open up vim.
So this is vim and it sure is a bit of information here.
And it also shows you a couple of commands.
A couple of commands that you can do and one of them is colon.
So let's type colon Q Just right now and notice that as we type the text is not appearing up there but
rather down here when text appears at the bottom of vim.
It means you are executing a special vim command when text appears at the top it means that you're typing
something in a document Bazil you quit vim by typing code on queue and you can optionally open them
with a file.
So you open vim by editing a file.
So let's open up a new file inside the test folder.
So I'm going to go to test and then forward slash and then I'm going to type in the file name.
So this is going to create a new file inside text and the file is going to be videoed got DXi.
So again with this is going to do is going to open up the vim program with this argument.
The argument is the test folder and inside the test folder the video doc textfile So lets press enter
.
And notice how now it tells a test slash video that he actually is a new file that we've created.
Now we are ready to begin typing.
So let's for example hello world and I'm going to begin typing now.
So what happened then suddenly half the words are missing.
Even though I promised I did type them.
And the reason why is because halfway through that typing this insert appeared there until the insert
appears all you type in vim is treated as a command and therefore is not appearing in the document.
Let's leave insert mode again by pressing escape the escape key which is on the top left of your keyboard
.
Notice how they insert this appears.
And if you try to type something like the letter H.
It doesn't work.
Doesn't type anything because h is not even command.
Well it is but it's not one that we can use at this point in time.
I get into that later.
So what to do is press the letter II for insert and then that means the insert mode appear.
And we can begin typing now in here and now if we type that are H We can type in as normal while we
are in insert mode.
No in commands we work because they'll instead be typed to the document.
So if we wanted to quit vim with colon Q It doesn't work because the colon appears in our document as
you can probably guess if we want to exit them we would first need to exit insert mode and then type
call on queue.
So that would be escape and then call on to notice that it appears down there.
And then we can present
however we have made changes to the document we've typed something in it and very nicely tells us that
we have made changes.
But we have not written the changes since the last change was made and what that means is that we've
not saved the changes to the disc with not written the changes to the disk so we can see if the changes
which is good if we couldn't then this text editor wouldn't be very useful.
And in order to save changes we praise on W for right.
And when we do this that is going to save the video 0.60 file with the contents that we have put in
it and here it says a new file has been created with one line and 16 columns written 16 columns and
one column for each count.
Now if you press call on queue it exits which is fantastic.
OK this was a quick introduction to vim and how you might go about opening up saving documents and exiting
documents on entering insert mode.
Now if we were to access that document again it has the content and we can quit it just as normal.
So that's it for this video.
Just a quick introduction to the very popular text that of him.
And there's actually loads that you can do with vim is not limited to just entering text and saving
and Whitton and there's search that you can do.
You can copy and paste and all that good jazz as you can do in any other text editor.
So by all means use vim if you are using a terminal because it is one of the most powerful text editors
out there.
And certainly one of the most powerful text editors in the timing.
That's it for this video.
When I see you in the next one